hi my name is Clark I'm an instructor
trainer with scuba comm and today we're
going to talk about cleaning your gear
after your dive day first off one of the
most important pieces of equipment you
have to make sure you take care of all
the time is your regulator you're going
to want to soak this in warm water warm
as you can stand because that's going to
help break the salt crystals down make
sure you keep the dust cover on the
regulator when it's immersed in water
and don't push your purge button because
that will allow water to go down the
second stage and that will mess up your
first stage let it soak for at least 45
minutes to an hour and then rinse it off
in fresh water and let it air dry the
next item you need to pay attention to
is your weight belt or weight pockets
whatever type of integrated system you
use along with your weights it's best to
soak this in fresh water after
everything else is done at least it
breaks the salt down you can use a
little bit of the salt away as well with
this and it keeps your weights from
getting all rusted up make sure you let
everything dry in a cool dry place the
next items out of your diet bag you want
to clean is your wetsuit gloves booties
hoods you want to make sure the items
are inside out if you've been beach
diving you want to rinse all the sand
off first you want to have a big trash
can full of fresh water soak your
wetsuits in there and your rubber
materials maybe add some wetsuit shampoo
that will keep your items nice and soft
and supple and extend their life if it
starts getting a little stinky you can
start using this fresh again this will
freshen it up after you finish rinsing
them or soaking them in your water you
want to keep them inside out till they
dry and then turn them right side again
so that the outside dries off then you
can store them away in a cool dry place
until your next dive last but not least
is your BCD you definitely want to soak
this in fresh water as long as you can
even warm water that helps break down
the salt residue that builds up on the
fabric or the exterior of the BCD you
also wanna make it a point to add water
through the manual inflator hose inflate
it up swish the water around that's
going to dilute the saltwater that's in
there then you want to just turn it up
yeah maybe with your powerful inter
attached it's your power center button
the air will expand the BCD and the air
pressure will force your water out
through the overpressure relief valves
therefore cleaning that out as well and
then soak your power theta 2 this is one
of the most neglected pieces of
equipment in your diving kit so once
you've got everything set up again like
your BC and everything else and in wet
suits and regulars you want to air dry
everything the salt away product will
help again on metal products and the
cord or material as well to help salt
from building up on all your gear